.TH NORMELOG 1 "August 2025" "1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
normelog \- analyze and filter norminette output with enhanced statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B normelog
[\fIOPTION\fR] [\fIERROR_TYPE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B normelog
runs norminette with specific flags and provides detailed analysis of the results. It shows statistics about correct and incorrect files, counts error types, and allows filtering by specific error patterns.
.PP
The command automatically uses the following norminette flags:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\-R CheckForbidenSourceHeader
.IP \(bu 2
\-\-use\-gitignore
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B ERROR_TYPE...
One or more error type patterns to filter results. The patterns are case-insensitive and use partial matching. Multiple patterns are combined with OR logic.
.PP
Common norminette error types include:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
FORBIDDEN_KEYWORD \- Use of forbidden keywords
.IP \(bu 2
INVALID_HEADER \- Header format issues
.IP \(bu 2
LINE_TOO_LONG \- Lines exceeding character limit
.IP \(bu 2
SPACE_BEFORE_TAB \- Whitespace formatting issues
.IP \(bu 2
TAB_INSTEAD_SPACE \- Tab/space usage errors
.IP \(bu 2
TRAILING_SPACE \- Trailing whitespace
.IP \(bu 2
EMPTY_LINE_EOF \- Empty lines at end of file
.IP \(bu 2
MISSING_IDENTIFIER \- Missing function/variable names
.IP \(bu 2
TOO_MANY_VARIABLES \- Variable count exceeded
.IP \(bu 2
TOO_MANY_FUNCTIONS \- Function count exceeded
.IP \(bu 2
BRACE_NEWLINE \- Brace positioning issues
.IP \(bu 2
INDENT_BRANCH \- Indentation in branches
.RE
.SH OUTPUT
.SS Without arguments:
Shows summary of correct vs incorrect files, complete error type statistics, and total error count.
.SS With error type arguments:
Shows filtered results grouped by file, displaying:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
File name
.IP \(bu 2
Error type, line number, column number, and description
.IP \(bu 2
Statistics for filtered errors only
.IP \(bu 2
Total count of filtered errors
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B normelog
Show complete analysis of all norminette errors
.TP
.B normelog FORBIDDEN
Show only errors containing "FORBIDDEN" in the error type
.TP
.B normelog INVALID_HEADER LINE_TOO_LONG
Show errors matching either "INVALID_HEADER" or "LINE_TOO_LONG"
.TP
.B normelog SPACE TAB
Show all spacing and tab-related errors
.SH FILES
The script processes all .c and .h files in the current directory and subdirectories, respecting .gitignore rules.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred during execution
.SH AUTHOR
Custom norminette analysis tool for 42 School projects.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR norminette (1),
.BR git-ls-files (1)
